In this video we'll talk about how to
get logistic regression to work for
multiclass classification problems.
And in particular I want to tell you
about an algorithm called one-versus-all
classification.
What's a multiclass
classification problem?
Here are some examples.
Lets say you want a learning algorithm
to automatically put your email into
different folders or
to automatically tag your emails so
you might have different folders or
different tags for work email,
email from your friends, email from your
family, and emails about your hobby.
And so here we have a classification
problem with four classes which we might
assign to the classes y = 1,
y =2, y =3, and y = 4 too.
And another example,
for medical diagnosis,
if a patient comes into your
office with maybe a stuffy nose,
the possible diagnosis could
be that they're not ill.
Maybe that's y = 1.
Or they have a cold, 2.
Or they have a flu.
And a third and final example if you
are using machine learning to classify
the weather, you know maybe you want to
decide that the weather is sunny, cloudy,
rainy, or snow, or if it's gonna be snow,
and so in all of these examples,
y can take on a small number of values,
maybe one to three, one to four and
so on, and these are multiclass
classification problems.
And by the way, it doesn't really
matter whether we index is at 0, 1,
2, 3, or as 1, 2, 3, 4.
I tend to index my classes starting
from 1 rather than starting from 0,
but either way we're off and
it really doesn't matter.
Whereas previously for
a binary classification problem,
our data sets look like this.
For a multi-class classification
problem our data sets may look like
this where here I'm using three different
symbols to represent our three classes.
So the question is given the data
set with three classes where
this is an example of one class, that's
an example of a different class, and
that's an example of yet a third class.
How do we get a learning
algorithm to work for the setting?
We already know how to do binary
classification using a regression.
We know how to you know maybe fit a
straight line to set for the positive and
negative classes.
You see an idea called
one-vs-all classification.
We can then take this and make it work for
multi-class classification as well.
Here's how a one-vs-all
classification works.
And this is also sometimes
called one-vs-rest.
Let's say we have a training set
like that shown on the left,
where we have three classes of y equals 1,
we denote that with a triangle,
if y equals 2, the square, and
if y equals three, then the cross.
What we're going to do is
take our training set and
turn this into three separate
binary classification problems.
I'll turn this into three separate
two class classification problems.
So let's start with class
one which is the triangle.
We're gonna essentially create a new sort
of fake training set where classes two and
three get assigned to the negative class.
And class one gets assigned
to the positive class.
You want to create a new training set
like that shown on the right, and
we're going to fit a classifier which
I'm going to call h subscript theta
superscript one of x where here
the triangles are the positive examples
and the circles are the negative examples.
So think of the triangles being
assigned the value of one and
the circles assigned the value of zero.
And we're just going to train a standard
logistic regression classifier and
maybe that will give us a position
boundary that looks like that.
Okay?
This superscript one here stands for
class one, so we're doing this for
the triangles of class one.
Next we do the same thing for class two.
Gonna take the squares and assign
the squares as the positive class, and
assign everything else, the triangles and
the crosses, as a negative class.
And then we fit a second logistic
regression classifier and call this h of
x superscript two, where the superscript
two denotes that we're now doing this,
treating the square class
as the positive class.
And maybe we get classified like that.
And finally, we do the same thing for
the third class and
fit a third classifier h
super script three of x, and
maybe this will give us a decision
bounty of the visible cross fire.
This separates the positive and
negative examples like that.
So to summarize, what we've done is,
we've fit three classifiers.
So, for i = 1, 2,
3, we'll fit a classifier x super
script i subscript theta of x.
Thus trying to estimate what is the
probability that y is equal to class i,
given x and parametrized by theta.
Right?
So in the first instance for
this first one up here, this classifier
was learning to recognize the triangles.
So it's thinking of the triangles
as a positive clause, so
x superscript one is essentially trying
to estimate what is the probability
that the y is equal to one,
given that x is parametrized by theta.
And similarly, this is treating
the square class as a positive class and
so it's trying to estimate
the probability that y = 2 and so on.
So we now have three classifiers,
each of which was trained to
recognize one of the three classes.
Just to summarize,
what we've done is we want to
train a logistic regression
classifier h superscript i of x for
each class i to predict
the probability that y is equal to i.
Finally to make a prediction,
when we're given a new input x, and
we want to make a prediction.
What we do is we just run all three of our
classifiers on the input x and we then
pick the class i that maximizes the three.
So we just basically pick the classifier,
I think whichever one of the three
classifiers is most confident and so
the most enthusiastically says that
it thinks it has the right clause.
So whichever value of i gives
us the highest probability
we then predict y to be that value.
So that's it for multi-class
classification and one-vs-all method.
And with this little method you can
now take the logistic regression
classifier and make it work on multi-class
classification problems as well